+++
layout = "post"
title = "Lang team design meeting: minimal const generics"
author = "Niko Matsakis"
description = "Minimal const generics meeting report"
team = "the lang team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/lang>"
+++

Hello! Did you know that the [lang team] now has regular design
meetings? We use these meetings to dig deeper into the output of
active project groups. After the meeting, we typically post a
recording to [YouTube] as well as some [minutes into the lang-team
repository][min]. I wanted to write a quick update listing out some of
the meetings we've had recently as well as some of our upcoming
meetings.

[YouTube]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL85XCvVPmGQg-gYy7R6a_Y91oQLdsbSpa
[lang team]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/lang
[min]: https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/tree/master/design-meeting-minutes

This blog post is about the meeting we held on 2020-07-22. We
discussed the idea of creating a "minimal const generics MVP", as
proposed by boats in [a recent blog
post](https://without.boats/blog/shipping-const-generics/).

You can read the [minutes from the meeting] to learn more details or
to find a link to the recording. In general, though, we were all
pretty excited about the idea. I expect that we will be creating a
project group soon around const generics and that its first goal will
be working towards this MVP.

[minutes from the meeting]: https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/blob/master/design-meeting-minutes/2020-07-22-Const-generics-MVP.md
