+++
layout = "post"
date = 2022-04-06
title = "Lang team April update"
author = "Josh Triplett"
description = "Lang team April update"
team = "The Rust Lang Team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/lang>"
+++

Today, the lang team held its April planning meeting. We hold these meetings on the first Wednesday of every month, and we use them to schedule [design meetings](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/meetings/design.html) for the remainder of the month.

## Upcoming design meetings

We have planned the following design meetings:

* 2021-04-13: [Implied bounds and perfect derive](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/152)
* 2021-04-20: [Language design research overview](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/155)
* 2021-04-27: [Backlog Bonanza](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/meetings/backlog-bonanza.html)

## Design meeting expectations

* The document for the meeting must be prepared by the triage meeting on Tuesday and posted to the tracking issue.
    * If it is not sent out by then, the meeting will be replaced with a [Backlog Bonanza](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/meetings/backlog-bonanza.html) session. This gives folks 24 hour notice.
* There is no expectation that people will read the document before the meeting. The meeting will begin with a recap of the document.
    * However, there is no rule **against** reading the document beforehand and providing feedback or advice on how to improve it.
