+++
layout = "post"
date = 2019-12-20
title = "Governance Working Group Update: Meeting 17 December 2019"
author = "Val Grimm"
team = "The Governance WG <https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance>"
+++

Hello everyone! 

On Tuesday 17 December the working group met and built an outline of an RFC to introduce project groups. If you would like to watch, a recording is available on [YouTube].

## Project groups

You can see the [detailed minutes] on the [wg-governance] repository, but here is a quick summary of what we would like to do with the RFC: 

* Introduce the project group concept, creation workflow, and lifecycle
* Provide guidance for how project groups use RFCs

Goals served by introducing project groups include improved visibility into and follow-through on projects,
as well as supporting better documentation of the design process.


## Next meeting

Our next meeting will be Jan 14. The topic is to be determined, but it is planned to discuss that on January 7th on the Rust Discord in the `#wg-governance` channel.

[wg-governance]: https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/
[detailed minutes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2019.12.17.md
[YouTube]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6us8yhDDUU&feature=youtu.be
