+++
path = "inside-rust/2021/07/02/compiler-team-july-steering-cycle"
title = "Rust Compiler July Steering Cycle"
authors = ["Felix Klock"]
description = "The compiler team's July steering cycle"
aliases = ["inside-rust/2021/07/02/compiler-team-july-steering-cycle.html"]

[extra]
team = "The Compiler Team"
team_url = "https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler"
+++
On [Friday, July 2nd][jul-02-zulip-archive], the Rust Compiler team had a planning meeting for the July steering cycle, followed by a continuation of an ongoing discussion of the 1.52.0 fingerprint event.

Every fourth Friday, the Rust compiler team decides how
it is going to use its scheduled steering and design meeting time over the next
three Fridays.

On [Friday, 9 July][jul-09-mtg], we will be having a third follow-up meeting to
continue the discussion of the incremental compilation fingerprint issue that
led to the emergency 1.52.1 release. For reference, the first meeting on this
subject was held on [Friday, 25 June][jun-25-zulip-archive] (and the second was
today, [July 2nd][jul-02-zulip-archive]).

[jun-25-zulip-archive]: https://zulip-archive.rust-lang.org/238009tcompilermeetings/56399steeringmeeting20210625152retrocompilerteam435.html

[jul-02-zulip-archive]: https://zulip-archive.rust-lang.org/238009tcompilermeetings/74498steeringmeeting20210702fingerprintsplanning.html

[jul-09-mtg]: https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/435

On [Friday, 16 July][jul-16-mtg], we will be having a meeting to discuss
extensions to the review policy for Rust Compiler Pull Requests.

[jul-16-mtg]: https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/444

Each meeting will run from 2pm to 3pm GMT, and will take place on the
[T-compiler/meetings zulip stream][zulip].

[zulip]: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/238009-t-compiler.2Fmeetings
