+++
path = "inside-rust/2020/04/10/upcoming-compiler-team-design-meeting"
title = "Upcoming compiler-team design meetings"
authors = ["Niko Matsakis"]
description = "Upcoming compiler-team design meetings"
aliases = ["inside-rust/2020/04/10/upcoming-compiler-team-design-meeting.html"]

[extra]
team = "the compiler team"
team_url = "https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler"
+++

In our [planning meeting today], the [compiler team] has scheduled our
next batch of upcoming design meetings. You can find the exact times
on the compiler team's [meeting calendar]:

* On April 3rd ([calendar event][ce1]), we will discuss
  [rust-lang/compiler-team#267], which is a proposal to move the
  ownership over the standard library *implementation* (but not
  specification) to the compiler team.

[ce1]: https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=M3I2N2tscWtjMnUxa2kxbmZoaGxqY2hqZmwgNnU1cnJ0Y2U2bHJ0djA3cGZpM2RhbWdqdXNAZw&tmsrc=6u5rrtce6lrtv07pfi3damgjus%40group.calendar.google.com
[rust-lang/compiler-team#267]: https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/267

### Did you know?

Most weeks, the compiler team has some sort of design meeting. These
meetings take place on Zulip and are open to all. Every 4 weeks, we do
a planning meeting to pick the next few meetings from the list of open
proposals. You can find [more details about how the compiler-team
steering meeting process here][details].

[details]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/about/steering-meeting/
[meeting calendar]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/#meeting-calendar
[planning meeting today]: https://zulip-archive.rust-lang.org/131828tcompiler/95526planningmeeting20200410.html
[compiler team]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler
