+++
layout = "post"
date = 2021-09-27
title = "Core team membership updates"
author = "The Rust Core Team"
+++

The Rust Core team is excited to announce the first of a series of changes to
its structure we’ve been planning for 2021, starting today by adding several new
members.

Originally, the Core team was composed of the leads from each Rust team.
However, as Rust has grown, this has long stopped being true; most members of
the Core team are not team leads in the project. In part, this is because Core’s
duties have evolved significantly away from the original technical focus. Today,
we see the Core team’s purpose as enabling, amplifying, and supporting the
excellent work of every Rust team. Notably, this included setting up and
[launching the Rust Foundation][launching].

[launching]: https://foundation.rust-lang.org/posts/2021-02-08-hello-world/

We know that our maintainers, and especially team leads, dedicate an enormous
amount of time to their work on Rust. We care deeply that it’s possible for not
just people working full time on Rust to be leaders, but that part time
volunteers can as well. To enable this, we wish to avoid coupling leading a team
with a commitment to stewarding the project as a whole as part of the Core team.
Likewise, it is important that members of the Core team have the option to
dedicate their time to just the Core team’s activities and serve the project in
that capacity only.

Early in the Rust project, composition of the Core team was made up of almost
entirely Mozilla employees working full time on Rust. Because this team was made
up of team leads, it follows that team leads were also overwhelmingly composed
of Mozilla employees. As Rust has grown, folks previously employed at Mozilla
left for new jobs and new folks appeared. Many of the new folks were not
employed to work on Rust full time so the collective time investment was
decreased and the shape of the core team’s work schedule shifted from 9-5 to a
more volunteer cadence.  Currently, the Core team is composed largely of
volunteers, and no member of the Core team is employed full time to work on
their Core team duties.

We know that it’s critical to driving this work successfully to have
stakeholders on the team who are actively working in all areas of the project to
help prioritize the Core team’s initiatives. To serve this goal, we are
announcing some changes to the Core team’s membership today: Ryan Levick,
Jan-Erik Rediger, and JT are joining the Core team. To give some context on
their backgrounds and experiences, each new member has written up a brief
introduction.

* [Ryan Levick](https://github.com/rylev) began exploring Rust in 2014 always
  looking for more and more ways to be involved in the community. Over time he
  participated more by co-organizing the Berlin Rust meetup, doing YouTube
  tutorials, helping with various project efforts, and more. In 2019, Ryan got
  the opportunity to work with Rust full time leading developer advocacy for
  Rust at Microsoft and helping build up the case for Rust as an official
  language inside of Microsoft. Nowadays he’s an active Rust project member with
  some of the highlights including working in the compiler perf team, running
  the Rust annual survey, and helping the 2021 edition effort.
* [Jan-Erik Rediger](https://github.com/badboy) started working with Rust
  sometime in late 2014 and has been a member of the Rust Community Team since
  2016. That same year he co-founded RustFest, one of the first conferences
  dedicated to Rust. In the following years seven RustFest conferences have
  brought together hundreds of Rust community members all around Europe and
  more recently online.
* [JT](https://github.com/jntrnr) has 15 years of programming language
  experience. During that time, JT worked at Cray on the Chapel programming
  language and at Apple on LLVM/Clang.  In 2012, they joined Microsoft as part
  of the TypeScript core team, where they helped to finish and release
  TypeScript to the world. They stayed on for over three years, helping direct
  TypeScript and grow its community. From there, they joined Mozilla to work on
  Rust, where they brought their experience with TypeScript to help the Rust
  project transition from a research language to an industrial language. During
  this time, they co-created the new Rust compiler error message format and the
  Rust Language Server. Their most recent work is with Nushell, a programming
  language implemented in Rust.

These new additions will add fresh perspectives along several axes, including
geographic and employment diversity. However, we recognize there are aspects of
diversity we can continue to improve. We see this work as critical to the
ongoing health of the Rust project and is part of the work that will be
coordinated between the Rust core team and the Rust Foundation.

[Manish Goregaokar](https://github.com/Manishearth) is also leaving the team to be able
to focus better on the dev-tools team. Combining team leadership with Core team
duties is a heavy burden. While Manish has enjoyed his time working on
project-wide initiatives, this coupling isn’t quite fair to the needs of the
devtools team, and he’s glad to be able to spend more time on the devtools team
moving forward.

The Core team has been doing a lot of work in figuring out how to improve how we
work and how we interface with the rest of the project. We’re excited to be able
to share more on this in future updates.

We're super excited for Manish’s renewed efforts on the dev tools team and for
JT, Ryan, and Jan-Erik to get started on core team work! Congrats and good luck!

*This post is part 1 of a multi-part series on updates to the Rust core team.*
